-in the intro we learned what is sqli and how to detect it and what it can effect

-it is a type of database type web vulnerability which can compromise crutial data

-how it works: enter or modify the url or text field to fetch or run a sql query to get something from inside or get the attacker inside

- how to detect sqli:

  in the url The single quote character ' and look for errors or other anomalies. 
  Boolean conditions such as OR 1=1 and OR 1=2, and look for differences in the application's responses. 
  Payloads designed to trigger time delays when executed within a SQL query, and look for differences in the time taken to respond.
  OAST payloads designed to trigger an out-of-band network interaction when executed within a SQL query, and monitor any resulting interactions. 

-most of the sqli querries run in the where or select clause however there are other clauses where it can affect like update,delete,insert,etc which can compromise a lot of data amd system

-There are lots of SQL injection vulnerabilities, attacks, and techniques, that occur in different situations. Some common SQL injection examples include:

    Retrieving hidden data, where you can modify a SQL query to return additional results.
    Subverting application logic, where you can change a query to interfere with the application's logic.
    UNION attacks, where you can retrieve data from different database tables.
    Blind SQL injection, where the results of a query you control are not returned in the application's responses.

-learned how to retrive hidden data from an ecommerse website

for example there is a url of this type when a user clicks on the gift section 

https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts

in this url we can append or add some queries which might give us the non released products as well from within the database

like for ....gift'--
this '-- symbol means comment in the sql so whatever is written after this in the url which is hidden from the user will be considered as a comment
https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'--

This results in the SQL query:
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts'--' AND released = 1

Crucially, note that -- is a comment indicator in SQL. This means that the rest of the query is interpreted as a comment, effectively removing it. In this example, this means the query no longer includes 
AND released = 1. As a result, all products are displayed, including those that are not yet released. 

the other type of querry you can run is the '+OR+1=1 

https://insecure-website.com/products?category=Gifts'+OR+1=1--

This results in the SQL query:
SELECT * FROM products WHERE category = 'Gifts' OR 1=1--' AND released = 1

The modified query returns all items where either the category is Gifts, or 1 is equal to 1. As 1=1 is always true, the query returns all items. 

after this i solved my first lab as apprentis:SQL injection vulnerability in WHERE clause allowing retrieval of hidden data

in this a shopping website was given
when clicked on the gift button it gives us the url ending with gift

here i first tried to use the '-- this command which resulted in only giving me 1 extra item in the list and the lab was solved 

so after this i tried the '+OR+1=1 querry which resulted in giving me all the listed products as well as all the non released products which resulted in clearing the lab.

